And so this is gonna start
with a display of flex and
a flex flow of row wrap,
just like I told you before.
By default, it'll do a row but
by default it'll also do no wrap,
we do actually want it to
wrap onto other lines.
Then I'm gonna say justify
content space between.
Okay, it looks a little
odd at the moment but
just putting the space
in between the boxes.
And then we can add to this a gap of 4%.
So in some of my previous courses,
we've actually had to calculate
what this gap is and work with it.
Now we can actually just declare it
like this with this new gap property,
which is really nice.
Obviously that's not quite
the look we were looking for, so
let's continue writing some CSS here.
So if I just say my figure has a flex
basis of something like 22%.
That will go ahead and
put my boxes here all on the first row.
Now, where did I get those numbers from?
I'm sure you were wondering,
where did I get 22% from?
Where do I get, for
my next row here with my next two set
of boxes how are we going to
specify the flex basis for those.
And how do we know how the math works out,
so let me show you how that works.
So let's draw out for
example our four boxes.
There they are one, two, three, four and
we've already set our gap to be 4% each,
so here's 4%,
4%, 4% because there's a space between, so
there's no gap on
the outside of these boxes.
There's only a gap in between, so
that is our layout for a four box layout.
So that's 12%, right?
12%, four plus four plus four 12%,
subtract that from 100% and
we wind up with 88%.
That's what we have left over.
So now we'll have to divide that by four
and we wind up with 22% that gonna be
the width of each of our boxes in order
to make this add up to 100% on our row.
>> The gap is only for
horizontal spacing or
is it also associated
with access concepts?
>> Well, because we have all of
these contained inside of a row,
this gap is only going to
be in between our boxes.
If we had our flex boxes all wrapping
onto another, just wrapping in space all
the way down the page as opposed to
putting them in artificial rows,
I think you get a little bit of
gap in between the rows as well.
But that is not a thing with
the markup that we have here.
All right, so now,
if I were to make a double box, right?
I want this to span across two
of these columns on the page.
So I have 22%, right?
And 22% in my two boxes.
So this larger box is gonna have to
be 22 + 22 + 4, right?
That gap in between.
So that total comes to 48%, right?
So, let's set that up.
Let's set up a class here,
we'll call it span two.
And we'll set the flex basis to 48%, okay?
Set the flex basis to 48%.
Then all we need to do is apply
that class here in our HTML.
So here on row two,
we have these two figures and
I am going to say a figure
has a class of span two.
And the next figure has
a class of span two.
So there we go.
All of our boxes are all lining up very,
very nicely, okay?
If you do wind up wanting a little
bit of space in between these rows.
You could certainly add
here to your row class,
you could do something like margin bottom,
for
example, of whatever one REM or something.
That would give you a little bit
of space in between the rows if
that was important to you, all right?
Or you could just leave that out it just
sort of depends on what your design is and
what it is you're trying to build as to
whether you would include that or not.
Okay, so
I'm gonna give you like 30 seconds.
See if you can figure out what the values
then would be for
span three and span four.
These are going to be
the classes that we're
going to apply here on row number three.
So we have one box that's
gonna take up three columns,
one box that takes up one column.
And then on row four we have one giant
box going all the way across the row.
So, do some quick math, and see if you
can figure out what those happen to be.
Okay, so let's just check in on that then.
So here on row number three,
we're gonna have our
figure with a class of span three, right?
And here on row four, we're gonna have
a figure with a class of span four.
So that's pretty simple on the HTML.
And then here in our CSS,
what are these values wind up being?
So our flex basis is going to be what?
Anybody?
Does anybody know?
Can you put it in the chat?
>> Seeing several different answers
>> Several different answers.
Okay.
>> 74%, 72%, 76%, 74%.
>> 72%, 74%, 76%, which one is it?
Okay, so let's see.
We've got now four boxes or
three boxes, right?
So one, two, three,
22, 22, 22, right?
So far so good at 66 and
then we've got 4 and 4.
So another 8 in between, you don't have
to worry about the space that's on
the outside of the box
cuz there isn't any,
using space between so
there's no outside space.
It's only in between the boxes
that we have the gap.
So if you said 74% you are a winner,
nicely done.
Okay, so
when we go back here it'll be 74%.
And then for span 4,
what is its flex basis?
>> 100.
>> A 100%.
Hopefully you said 100%,
four boxes of 22% each that's 88%,
three gaps of four each,
that's another 12.
So it winds up being 100%.
So we've got our row one, that looks good.
Row two, that looks good.
Row three, that looks good.
Row four is stretching all the way across.
The only last thing we have to do
now here is with row number five.
And if we take a look at
our HTML in row number
five I set a one to one distribution.
But I'm actually going to put here for
the first figure I'm gonna say span or
class equals span two.
Because we may actually want
this particular box presumably
the bigger box has got
the important information in it.
So in terms of the order on the page
we will want that to be listed
first in the row and then the supporting
elements which are presumably
in the smaller boxes are going
to be here later in this row.
Sorry we actually don't even need to
put any classes in here for this.
So we should have then one fat box, right?
There it is, our span of two and
then there's two individuals.
So now how are we going to make this go
to that one to one configuration that I
mentioned what do we do?
Anybody have any suggestions for
what we could do to fix that problem?
Anyone have any suggestions in the chat?
>> Order?
>> Order, yep, so
we're gonna set up some order properties.
And so I'm just gonna call
mine order-1 which will
have order one [LAUGH].
Order-2 we'll be order two and
order-3 will be order number three, okay?
So we can just set those
up as individual classes.
And then once you have those in place
you can just apply them to your HTML.
So we now have a class of span two,
and the class of order-2.
So both remember classes you can
stack up more than one in your
individual declarations.
And then maybe this one here,
the second figure will
have a class of order-1.
And maybe this last one will
have a class of order-3.
If you scroll on down there,
it should all work out for you.
>> Just in terms of, if any of
the elements had focusable elements
inside of them we wouldn't
want to change the order for
accessibility reasons, right?
>> Yeah, you definitely have to factor
that into your choice of ordering and so
forth here, yes absolutely